# REAL-TIME-ROAD-TRAFFIC

Introduction

Video processing systems use high performance computers and application oriented circuits in the current technology. It is because of the amount of data to be processed is large and processing this data in real time is a tedious task. Surveillance of traffic area is essential nowadays, because of rapid increase in the number of vehicles but road area remains the same causing congestion. Determining the density of the vehicles in the road and analysis of the surveillance of the video help a lot in traffic management systems Different techniques have been proposed to detect the vehicles and track them on desktop computers. We detect vehicles based on rear lamp and number plate with dedicated traffic surveillance camera. The system uses stationary camera to capture the traffic video. They extract frames from the video sequences and work on each frame of the video. Different techniques are being considered to detect rear lamp and number plate. Once after the localization of the vehicle parts, these parts are combined using Markov Random Field to model the relationship. Later Kalman filters are used to track the vehicles to get the better results. Hybrid image template to detect vehicles. A template is made by extracting various features using 50–1000 frames. Vehicles are detected in three stages using SUM-MAX procedure. In each step the local frame region with maximal score is computed

We are proposing an algorithm in detection of lane using On Board Processor, Obstacle avoidance and remotely controlling the car using On Board Processor along with other hardware devices, such as HD camera with ultrasonic sensor. But still the algorithm needs a lot of improvement with respect to real time, accuracy of lane detection.We have tried to build a system to detect, track and count vehicles using On Board Processor and a CCTV camera. The Pi camera has a resolution 5 Mp which supports 1080P30 to capture videos. The proposed system is capable of operating online and offline.  In offline mode, a prerecorded video streams are analyzed to generate a traffic results. In online mode it directly captures the video and process the video in real time.

Many systems have been developed to detect, track and count the vehicle on a road, which are of high cost and hence limits the number of systems to be used at different locations . Hence, we come up with the new system which is portable, can change its capture rate at any given time and can access video data in real time through Mobile or Desktop computers in remote place. We introduce On Board Processor for detection of vehicles and track them. It also analyses the input video and can provide the vehicle count at any given time.

1.This method is proposing to detect vehicles based only on the color of the vehicle and does not consider any other features to detect them thereby reducing the time cost without sacrificing the accuracy.

2. The proposed system model makes use of On Board Processor interfaced with USB or CCTV camera instead of using powerful workstations. This system is portable.

3. On Board Processor is accessed by remote computers, android devices or laptops and makes provision for view selection. Later section explains about the system in detail. 
